Drafted a news item for Polish EOSC Node at EOSC Symposium 2025. (#3454)
galaxyproject/galaxy-hub: content/news/2025-11-16-eosc-symposium-poland-node/index.md

---
title: "Polish EOSC Node at EOSC Symposium 2025: Galaxy and Pulsar in action"
date: "2025-11-16"
authors: "Armin Dadras"

> tease: "The Polish EOSC Node showed an end-to-end research path where Galaxy orchestrates analysis and PLGrid’s Pulsar executes it; data in, results out, fully traceable. The video is the centrepiece."

Author: ```suggestion
tease: "At the EOSC Symposium 2025, the Polish EOSC Node demonstrated a complete FAIR research workflow powered by Galaxy and PLGrid’s Pulsar integrating data analysis, execution, and provenance tracking through Onedata. The presentation video and full details are available via the [EOSC Node - Poland](https://eosc.pl/)."
```

supporters: [eosc, esg]
subsites: [all, esg]
main_subsite: eu
---
At the [EOSC Symposium 2025](https://eosc.eu/news/lets-seize-this-moment-momentum-made-visible-at-eosc-symposium-2025/) in Brussels, the programme spotlighted the first wave of EOSC Nodes and the momentum behind the Federation’s launch. Roksana Wilk presented “From National Resources to EOSC: The EOSC Node Poland Gateway,” positioning the Polish node within EOSC’s broader move from plans to operations. 

The demo and accompanying video walk through a complete workflow on [eosc.pl](https://eosc.pl/):

1. Integrate data into [Onedata](https://onedata.org/#/home) spaces and catalogue.
2. Select datasets via [data.eosc.pl](https://data.eosc.pl/ozw/onezone/i#/login).
3. Choose environment.
4. Run analysis by configuring [Onedata](https://onedata.org/#/home) as [a source in Galaxy](https://training.galaxyproject.org/training-material/hall-of-fame/lopiola/).
5. Gather results back to [Onedata](https://onedata.org/#/home) as [RO-Crate](https://www.researchobject.org/ro-crate/) with provenance.

> 6. Publish via the [eosc.pl](https://eosc.pl/) catalogue for discovery and reuse. 

Author: ```suggestion
4. Configuring [Onedata](https://onedata.org/#/home) as [a source in Galaxy](https://training.galaxyproject.org/training-material/hall-of-fame/lopiola/).
5. Run analysis on [Galaxy](https://usegalaxy.eu/).
6. Gather results back to [Onedata](https://onedata.org/#/home) as [RO-Crate](https://www.researchobject.org/ro-crate/) with provenance.
7. Publish via the [eosc.pl](https://eosc.pl/) catalogue for discovery and reuse. 
```
